Have you ever felt that a change of oversight or organizational arrangement was hard to accept?
Or maybe you even felt hurt in some way personally by the change?
Well, why do these changes occur? And what is the best way for us to respond to them?
Even if the change seems to be to our personal disadvantage?
Well, let's open our Bibles to Numbers chapter 27 and examine an account
that may help answer these questions.
The account relates to when Jehovah notified Moses of his approaching death
and the need for a man to take over Moses' responsibilities.
And Numbers chapter 27, let's begin at verse 15.
Then Moses said to Jehovah, let Jehovah the God of the Spirit of all people
appoint over the assembly a man.
Who will go out and come in before them and who will lead them out and bring them in
so that Jehovah's assembly may not become like sheep that have no shepherd.
Why would Moses call Jehovah describe him as the God of the Spirit of all people?
Because all people are dependent on Jehovah for life.
Moses knew that and Moses knows that when one servant dies,
Jehovah the God of the Spirit of all people will raise up another living servant
to serve within the theocratic structure just as Jehovah sees fit.
So what does Jehovah now do? Well, let's look at verse 18.
So Jehovah said to Moses, take Joshua, the son of none, a man whom there is Spirit
and lay her hand on him.
So now Jehovah picks Joshua. Joshua was a spiritual man.
He proved his loyalty and obedience for years.
However, Joshua was not to be a Moses junior.
The arrangement was changing and it would not be a one-man show.
Joshua would now fit into a new organizational role.
What would that be? Well, let's look at verse 19 and 20.
Then stand him, Joshua, before Elijah the priest and before all the assembly and you must
commission him before their eyes. You are to confer some of your authority on him. Notice
not all the authority but some so that all the assembly and the Israelites may listen to him.
So here we see the difference in this role becoming clear.
Joshua was not to be like Moses and knowing Jehovah face to face.
Not all of Moses' authority was to transfer over to Joshua.
Only what was needed for Joshua to have the respect of the nation.
And now notice verse 21.
He will stand before Elijah the priest who will inquire in his behalf by the judgment of the
Eurom before Jehovah. Do we see the difference? Joshua was now to work with the high priest
to ascertain the divine will. Yes, Joshua was capable but he was more than capable in God
fearing. Joshua was a modest man and a humble man and he accepted this new arrangement.
Well, Joshua had already been molded on the great potter's wheel for some 40 years of wilderness
wandering. A discipline that he personally did not deserve.
But now in accepting this new arrangement, this molding process would continue.
How would it continue? Well, we see Jehovah now using two imperfect men, an administrator
and a high priest to balance each other out to make sure that Jehovah's perfect will took place.
So now in two imperfect people, making sure Jehovah's perfect will moved forward.
This would be the arrangement. For example, during the time period of the kings when King
Uzziah circumvented the theocratic arrangement, it was high priest Aziraya who
reproved him for this unlawful act. Or when high priest Abayathar proved his loyal,
it was King Solomon who dismissed him from the priesthood. So we see the balance of two
imperfect men when one was weak, the other proved strong. Well, what do we learn?
Well, we're learning that Jehovah, again, the God of the Spirit of all people
is not dependent on just one person, nor is he dependent in our case at Bethel on just one
department. And that is why we work together. And this is why we foster warm feelings in relationships
between departments because we need each other. So each of us needs to be humble enough to ask for
help when needed and yet on selfish enough to provide resources so that others can get
Jehovah's work done. And we see evidence. We see evidence today of how Jehovah is getting his
work done. Look at what he is accomplishing. Jehovah is continuing to raise up qualified
servants again to shepherd and lead his people as he sees fit. When it comes to world headquarter
departments oversight or branch committee members department overseers construction overseers
these individuals are like Joshua who are willing to work together and to stay on the potter's
wheel and be molded by Jehovah. Why? So that we do not become, as verse 17 says, as sheep that have
no shepherd. But in reality, all of us, whether we are in positions of oversight or not, want
Jehovah the great potter to mold us. Keep molding us. And yet, frankly, it can be challenging,
challenging at times to stay on the potter's wheel and not allow the imperfections of others
to push us off or the organizational changes that take place to knock us down. For example,
as Jehovah continues to refine his organization adjustments are made and perhaps in the process
our assignment is change and our feelings get hurt by the change or perhaps our feelings get hurt
by the way the change was implemented. So when you feel that you've been caught in a pinch
point between the moving parts of the organization or more specifically when you feel pressure being
applied upon you as you spin on the wheel of the great potter, that is when we beg Jehovah,
beg Jehovah to help us remain moist, beg Jehovah to help us remain pliable during this molding
process. And tell Jehovah, Jehovah, it's not easy. Tell him how you feel. Please help me, Jehovah.
I want to be molded by you. And then we're patient. Be patient and try to see the big picture.
What is the big picture? The big picture is that Jehovah is using imperfect people to work with
imperfect people. That's all he has at present. And that Jehovah is teaching us, he is teaching us
how to make peace with imperfection. The big picture is how much Jehovah is accomplishing
with so little. When we meditate on that, we can see the value of working together and when we
work together, that's when Jehovah accomplishes the most. So it's a fact, the personnel and God's
visible organization change and it will continue to change whether that be due to death or other
circumstances, the personnel will change. And yet the change does not cripple the work. Why?
Because this is Jehovah's work, it's not man's. So let's be confident that Jehovah, again, Jehovah,
the God of the Spirit of all people, he will continue to raise up humble, imperfect yes, but humble,
imperfect overseers to shepherd his people as he sees fit. And rest assured that Jehovah will continue
to guide and lead his organization, his global organization, to spiritual success.